# What is .NET Aspire?

* You need to ensure that the applications you create are designed to take maximum advantage from cloud hosting services
* The apps deployed in the cloud often exhibit certain architectural patterns so that performance, scalability, and reliability are optimal.

## What is a Cloud Native Application?
* **Cloud Infrastructure**: Cloud-native applications are deployed to cloud hosting solutions and not to on-premises server farms.
* **Microservices**: Cloud-native applications are implemented as a set of microservices, each of which implements a small part of the business functionality.
* **Containers**: Microservices and other parts of the application are developed and deployed in containers to ensure a consistent execution environment.
* **Backing Services**: Ancillary resources, such as databases and caching services, can be used to provide common functionality to microservices.
* **Twelve-Factor Application Methodology**:
  * **Codebase**: One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys. Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).
  * **Dependencies**: Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies
  * **Config**: Store config in the environment
  * **Backing services**: Treat backing services as attached resources
  * **Build, Release, Run**: Strictly separate build and run stages
  * **Processes**: Execute the app as one or more stateless processes
  * **Port Binding**: Export services via port binding
  * **Concurrency**: Scale out via the process model
  * **Disposability**: Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown
  * **Dev/prod parity**: Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible
  * **Logs**: Treat logs as event streams
  * **Admin Processes**: Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes
* Cloud-native applications use Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to automate platform provisioning and deployment.
