# Learn How to Create a .NET Aspire Project

* .NET Aspire simplifies the architecture providing a set of templates you can use to create and manage the connections between these services.
* Learn how to create a .NET Aspire Project
* Learn to understand the differences between the two starter project templates
* Explore the structure of the generated solution

<details>
<summary>📖 Table of Contents</summary>
 
## Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Starter Templates](#starter-templates)
- [Create a New Project With the Starter Templates](#create-a-new-project-with-the-starter-templates)
- [Starter Template Structure](#starter-template-structure)
- [Code Structure: Program.cs](#code-structure-programcs)
</details>

## Prerequisites
* .NET 8
* Visual Studio 2022 Preview
* Docker Desktop or Podman
* .NET Aspire workload in Visual Studio

## Starter Templates
* **.NET Aspire Application**:
  * Good starting point for new projects
  * Only includes the AspireSample.AppHost and AspireSample.ServiceDefaults projects
  * Ueful when you want to start from scratch and add your own integrations and services.
* **.NET Aspire Starter Application**:
  * Includes the AspireSample.AppHost and AspireSample.ServiceDefaults projects
  * Also includes an example Blazor App AspireSample.Web and an API that provides data to it AspireSample.ApiService
  * Are preconfigured with service discovery and other basic examples of common .NET Aspire functionality.
* **.NET Aspire App Host**: A template that only contains an app host (orchestrator) project.
* **.NET Aspire Service Defaults**: A template that only contains the service defaults project.
* **.NET Aspire Test Project**: A template that only contains unit tests for the app host project.

# Create a New Project With the Starter Templates
* Visual Studio > File > New > Project: use the Visual Studio launch dialog to create a new .NET Aspire project
* ```dotnet new aspire```: create a solution with the .NET Aspire Application template
* ```dotnet new aspire-starter```: use the .NET Aspire Starter Application template
* The CLI commands are useful when you want to create a new .NET Aspire project with default settings
* Although you can alter the defaults with flags in the CLI, the Visual Studio GUI is preffered for customization

# Starter Template Structure
```

────📂 AspireSample
     ├───📂 AspireSample.ApiService
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.ApiService.csproj
     │    └─── Program.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.AppHost
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.AppHost.csproj
     │    └─── Program.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.ServiceDefaults
     │    ├─── AspireSample.ServiceDefaults.csproj
     │    └─── Extensions.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.Web
     │    ├───📂 integrations
     │    │    ├───📂 Layout
     │    │    │    ├─── ...
     │    │    ├───📂 Pages
     │    │    │    ├─── ...
     │    │    ├─── ...
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├───📂 wwwroot
     │    │    ├───...
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.Web.csproj
     │    ├─── Program.cs
     │    └─── WeatherApiClient.cs
     └─── AspireSample.sln
```
* **AppHost**: the entry point and is responsible for acting as the orchestrator.
* **ServiceDefaults**: contains the default configuration for the application that are reused accross all the projects in your solution
* **Web**: a Blazor WebAssembly app that has a counter and calls the ApiService to get forecast data
* **APIService**: a simple API that returns forecast data.

## Code Structure: Program.cs
```
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var cache = builder.AddRedis("cache");

var apiService = builder.AddProject<Projects.AspireStarterSample_ApiService>("apiservice");

builder.AddProject<Projects.AspireStarterSample_Web>("webfrontend")
    .WithReference(cache)
    .WithReference(apiService);

builder.Build().Run();
```
* Create a builder variable that's a IDistributedApplicationBuilder.
* Create a cache variable that's a IResourceBuilder<RedisResource>.
* Call *AddProject* with a generic-type parameter containing the project's IServiceMetadata details, adding the AspireSample.ApiService project to the application model.
* **AddProject**: a fundamental building block of .NET Aspire that configures service discovery and communication between the projects in your app
* **APIService**: used to identify the project in the application model and by projects that want to communicate with it.
* Calls AddProject again, this time adding the AspireSample.Web project to the application model
* This call also chains multiple calls to WithReference passing the cache and apiservice variables.
* **WithReference API**: another fundamental API of .NET Aspire, which injects either service discovery information or connection string configuration into the project being added to the application model.
* **builder**: calls Build and Run to start the application.

<p align="right"><a href="#top">🔼 Back to top</a></p>
